--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: Sigh sigh.
tags: []

drupal_path: sigh-sigh
drupal_nid: 907
created: 1016421900
---
Whattaweekend.

So Thursday night morphed into a mad dash to finish <A HREF="http://www.modernabrasive.com">www.modernsabrasive.com</A> and its SQL backend of dhoom, and the morning turned into the fateful moment of delivery. All went well, though, and I got to chat with <A HREF="http://www.robis.net">David</A> about <A HREF="">assorted tech bits</A>, oggle the new <A HREF="">OSX</A> <A HREF="">iMac</A> he got for the office, and hack together a quick SQL Server package to auto-import inventory for the site. <A HREF="http://www.openstore.com/posters/victoryusaa.jpg">All is well.</A>

The rest of the weekend, abbreviated for the moment, with further explainations to follow:

Dinner with Jeff, Dana, and Jenn at the Olive garden. NUMMYNESS ENSUES. Mushroom-stuffed pasta in yummy cream sauce, chocolatey dessert, and all manner of goodness. Cruised arou ndant talked with Jenn for a few hours after that -- found a karaoke dive in Winfield where a few of her HS/College friends were hanging out and soaked up atmosphere (Read: country music, smoke, and laughter) for a while. Jenn sings 'Summer of 69,' the verb narrowly avoids performing a lounge version of Twinkle Twinkle Little Star. The world exhales, relieved.

Morning comes, recovery from late night follows, and bowling with more of the graceland crew ensues. I start solid but collapse into a string of 2-3 pin sets followed by gutterballs. Final score, 62. Fortunately Warren's 163 score pulls the guys' team through. I hand Jeff B. a printout of geek-culture education materials for Dana, aiding in the cross-culture understanding that is necessary as she dates a high quality Hacker Guy. We bamf to rachel d's place to hang out, talk, eat, and admire the gal's smashinly excellent decor. what window treatments! what elegance! i want a condo of my very own, too.

i have to split though, to make it to axis and hook up with old willownet compadre Jeff Brown. Sensing an overabundance of Jeffs? I thought so. Spent some time with him and assorted others at Gameworks, it was good. Camped out at the Tekken 4 machine and severely thrashed all comers. one walked away cursing as the screen flashed 'PERFECT.' Take me on when I'm playing Hwoarang? Brother does NOT know who he's messing with.

Sunday morning wake up, check voicemail, iron good slacks, realize that ironing in boxers is a bad idea. queue up songs for a new havana mix and set the disc to burn, playing phone tag with trin, siri, and danny while deciding what's up for the evening. trin moves back to cali on tuesday, so we plan to chill and enjoy and hang out and al lthat goodness tonight, making sure that chicago goes out with a bang. cd is finished burning, straight fro mburner to my jacket pocket, and i'm out the door heading downtown. we sup at rancho luna, a great cuban place on peterson & kimball. i'm in heaven. then we bamf to a party elsewhere, a st patty's day bash at the shared apartment of a religious studies major, a performance artist, and what seems to be a couple of anarchist kids. fun crowd, interesting mix. dj sasha is spun, goth jokes are traded, numbers are exchanged, and i'm declared an offiially accepted cool person in the group. is this good? one of the girls thought i was gay. bada-ching.

get a call from jenn -- dinner tomorrow evening (yay, woohoo), drive back to the apartment with trin and siri, grab ben and jerry's and a movie. crash and laugh and watch the flick and scarf down good food and good ice cream while we critique postmodern irony. (ironic, eh?) chill and talk for an hour or three. i give backrubs all around, one person collapses in bliss (if i do say so myself) and another expresses grattitude. hug trin, pray for her and her move and the journey to come, and i'm out in my car, and i'm driving home. Mix disc and streetlines sliding by on the 290 expressway -- weekend done, jeff exhausted. as it should be.
