--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: Thoughts.
tags: []

drupal_path: thoughts
drupal_nid: 1038
created: 1037185380
---
Arguments against war can sometimes be pragmatic -- i.e., we'd lose more than we gain. What happens when we're the biggest kid on the playground, though? So big we don't really have to worry about that?

Afghanistan was, in some instances, deadly for American troops. The fact still remains, though, that we lost more Americans to highway accidents during that time period than to friendly or hostile fire in Afghanistan. Compare that to the wholescale slaughter of WWI and WWII, and the bloody messes that made up Korea and Vietnam. Desert Storm, over a decade ago, was just as dramatic, even if we were up against a standing army instead of terrorists.

What happens when we can effectively wage war with no allied loss of life? The pragmatic argument starts looking Chicken-Little. The real problem is the moral component of war. What is legitimate justification for war? Some would say 'nothing,' but I disagree. There are cases in history when aggression and self-defense came into play, and IMO could be justified. Others would say that <i>any</i> reason is sufficient justification, if the country's interests align with it financially or politically. I find this line of reasoning extremely unsettling, though, as it's just utilitarianism. Heck, wars of conquest and genocide can be justified with <i>that</i> logic.

So I'm picking my way through the question. What can justify a war? And as the (effective) king of the hill, what moral restrictions are on the US?
