--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: 6.21.99
tags: []

drupal_path: 6-21-99
drupal_nid: 749
created: 929931000
---
summing up the past week -- heck, the past month -- is an exercise in  futility. to say that i've been confused would be putting it mildly. i've given up trying to find the right words to capture the subtleties, fell in love with maria. or rather, admitting that i had fallen in love with her.

the fact that she first professed her love for me did nothing to assuage my guilt over admitting the feelings. i can't explain the belief, but i've always felt that admitting attraction and desire before i've resolved to marry someone was vaguely inconsiderate and selfish. perhaps i absorbed more from bill gothard's stuff than i thought i had. or perhaps i'm just too sensitive to these things. either way, i've been a conflicted 'angst muffin' ever since.

for a few days, both maria and i seemed plunged into a warm pool of animal bliss. nothing bad, per se. just the heady realization that, yes, /both of us/ were in love! the novelty of it was staggering and i was walking on air for a good thirty-six hours or so. but in the true spirit of internet time, it crashed and burned quickly. a discussion about homosexuality (or rather, the legal/political status of homosexuality) flared, with only fifteen minutes before she had to depart. it was the last conversation we had before she disappeared for austria with her parents.

i spent days in agony; i wrote late night letters, pouring out my soul and clicking 'send.' then, one day, a package arrived -- the book she'd promised to send. 'Maria asked me to drop this in the mail,' a note explained, 'as she and Peter left for Vienna.'

She and Peter.

Vienna.

I was brained.

For days I had gone sleepless, jerked up in bed from dreams of her calling, sweated over the subtle turns of phrases in letters to her that I never had the nerve to send. I bought stuffed animals to send her, and multitude kitten cards, imagining their potential impact. I tried to convince myself that it was a mistake -- a misunderstanding -- but slipped quickly into despair. What good was a moral or ethical conflict if she was off romping through Europe with her gorgeous boyfriend?

finally, i called -- from work no less, with a calling card that snapped my voice away after 5 short minutes. She was in Austria with Peter, I learned. And again, despair nailed me with a well-thrown brick.

Time passed -- a fuzzy blur of confused calls and attempts to parse potential implications. She appeared online but I missed her. I quit my job and stumbled through a haze of obsessive replays. Had I said something wrong in that conversation? Missed some subtext in another? There was no answer.

Finally, I caught her online. We talked for three and a half hours, disemboweling ourselves slowly. So anxious to keep the other from pain that we raced to martyrdom. She told me she would never talk to me again, to spare me the pain -- after offering a muddled, confused explaination of her feelings for for Peter and his 'noninterest' in a long distance relationship. then, tearfully, she recanted and said she would call me -- admitting that she was indecisive.

I thought of Suzanne Vega's song, Language. 'I want to meet you / in some nameless place / beyond time or consequence...' I think it's what both of us wanted. It scares me, right now, the intensity. The intensity of remembering what it is like to talk to her. To realize, suddenly, that someone knows me. The things that i fear are annoying or abrasive. And still finds herself drawn to me. I feel defenseless and shaken and far too ready to search for her lips with mine.

She is, I have often joked to Nate, the woman of my dreams. In the silence that has followed our most recent conversations, I fear that she will only ever exist in my dreams. She is camped out, last I heard, at the US consulate in Vienna. Seeking a visa renewal that will decide her fate for the next several years.

Perhaps it will be easier for both of us if we never meet -- there are more than enough issues to make a relationship difficult. But aren't there always? Perhaps her presence would only distact me from the time away that I need, and perhaps meeting me would only serve to confuse her more.

Perhaps i'm simply lonely, and needing someone close.

Perhaps we both are.

Perhaps I'm just confused.

I think I will call her tonight; I don't feel quite foolish enough just yet.


<i>"Pay attention to the little things; your actions, and your interactions with people. Do, and do in the spirit of Christ. The philosophy will follow."  -- Maria E. Doerfler</i>
