--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: Jeff is...
tags: []

drupal_path: jeff-is
drupal_nid: 974
created: 1026135600
---
Jeff is currently on a seven month international tour, returning to Australia in November this year.

JEFF is a file format specification which allows storing, on-platform, non pre-linked Java classes in a form that does not require any modification for efficient execution. 

Jeff is a file infecting virus.

Jeff is available for select speaking engagements.

Jeff is one of the true pioneers in Internet Telephony whose expertise is widely utilized inside the telecommunications industry.

Jeff is an active member of the Folk Alliance, as well as a founding member of the Austin Conspiracy of Performing Songwriters.

Jeff is, among other roles, an artist, working primarily for the last 15 years in the video game industry.

Jeff is cute, and I like his cat, Buster. 

Jeff is recognized as the father of what is commonly referred to as "The Modern Techniques of Shooting."

Jeff is looking for summer employment.

Jeff is cool. Jeff often eats, but Jeff never drools.

Jeff is currently exploring the histories of the world of Magic: The Gathering, the popular fantasy card game. 

Jeff is a professional hitter whose versatility makes him very valuable to the Orioles.

Jeff is a very distinguished, versitile, and multifaceted actor who many of us have come to appreciate and enjoy.

Jeff is a Squid, a little girl squid.

Jeff is the past president of CH·IV Cryogenics LP, but now spends much of his time overseeing the activities of CH·IV LNG Company. 

Jeff is a member of the Eastman Jazz Trio with Harold Danko and Rich Thompson.

Jeff is developing a series of books that explore the natural history of endangered species and the threatened ecosystems they inhabit.

Jeff is the top sportfish catching captain in Kona five years in a row!

Jeff Is Here to Pump You Up.

Jeff is mentioned in this months International Figure Skating Magazine with a nice picture (from Canadians I think).

Jeff is a blues rock guitarist who plays from the heart. 

Jeff is also a staple on shows such as "The Tonight Show," and "The Late Show with David Letterman" and has two Showtime specials to his credit.

Jeff is currently working with the National Renewable Energy Laboratory to study several low-cost domestic hot water systems for residential and commercial applications.  

Jeff is serious about humor and how it can affect a company's bottomline.

Jeff is a bright 10th grader who has generally been a strong student, though he has had some difficulties since middle school.

Jeff is how I imagine Heaven smells.

Jeff is one of six (5 boys and 1 girl), who are scattered throughout the country.

Jeff is currently working on the design and analysis of small (1-20 W) radioisotope heat sources for space power applications.

Jeff is always our first choice!

Jeff is now accepting concert, retreat and worship dates for Summer and Fall!

Jeff is your "Submissions" contact.

Jeff is a member of the Earth and Environmental Sciences Department at Okanagan University College, and also holds an adjunct professorship in the Department.

Jeff is the ace pilot in an elite team of top gun pilots known as "First Strike" who are prepared for anything.

Jeff is designing a new offshore reef in about 100 feet of water off of Pinellas County for fisherman and divers.

Jeff is in daily communication with the creator of the universe.

Jeff is a serious naturalist, but he's got a funny side too! 

Jeff is most proud of his tireless work to help bring millions of people to the game of golf.

Jeff is an eight-year-old who likes to be a part of what is going on around him by becoming actively involved in both one-on-one and group situations. 

Jeff is a Certified Professional Photographer Member of PPA. Location Scouting; available in Georgia, SC, AL, MS, CA, (Mtns/Coastal/Urban/Rural) $275-2500/day.

Jeff is my significant other. Jeff is tall, dark (brown eyes and dark brown hair), and handsome.

Jeff is a very successful doctor of chiropractic and acupuncturist.

Jeff is internationally renowned and has pioneered techniques in self-assembly of nanocomposites that have gained the attention of the entire world of researchers in materials science.

Jeff is fully capable and set up to do his own welding, painting, interiors, mechanical work and anything else it takes to make a car!

Jeff is all too aware of Joe's identity.

Jeff is an energetic high school freshman with speech and learning disabilities.

Jeff is working it.

Jeff is the co-creator and executive producer of the "Latino Laugh Festival," a 13-week series which debuted on Showtime Friday, July 12th, 1996. 

Jeff is an amazing experience. 

Jeff is right.
