--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: Yawn.
tags: []

drupal_path: yawn
drupal_nid: 913
created: 1017004260
---
Y'know, some people have issues with guys that don't want to sleep with them. 

Chick I've talked to a few times, who keeps me on her contact list online so I see her conversations with her friends... she strikes up a conversation and the subject of people looking gay comes up.

<SMALL><blockquote>
Vixen says, 'You look gay, Verb'
Verb nods. And I don't hit on women, which pretty much settles it from what I hear.
Vixen nods
Vixen says, 'Ya a closet faerie'
Vixen draws wings on you
You say, 'nope, just not a jerk.'
You say, 'there's a subtle but distinct difference.'
Vixen says, 'riiiiiiiiiight'
Vixen says, 'gay vs ungay'
Verb shrugs.
Vixen hmmms
Verb is the oxymoronic girl's best het friend.
Vixen thinks . o O ( gay. )
You say, 'Now, vixie. why do you have to go and say things like that? ;)'
Vixen says, 'because you are.'
Verb laughs. Based on..?
Vixen says, 'you go hang out with girls and dont' mess with them....you're so fucking girlie that it's not even funny.'
Vixen says, 'You're a pansy.'
Verb laughs.
Vixen is really being serious
Vixen says, 'I relaly do think that you are.'
You ask Vixen 'I'm a pansy because I don't get plastered, hit on women, and go home to throw up?'
Vixen says, 'Please...you don't hit on women at all.'
Verb grins.
Vixen says, 'You're as big a pansy as my faeries are.'
You say, 'define 'pansy.''
Vixen says, 'No girl will date you...you're too much of a "girl's best friend".....a "dorothy with red slippers"'
You say, 'I think you've got issues, kiddo.'
Vixen shrugs....as do you.
You say, 'Never denied it. Technically, though, being attracted to guys is the criteria for being gay, and as much as it disappoints you, it ain't my thing.'
Vixen says, 'uh-huh....riiiiight'
</blockquote></SMALL>

The thing that annoys me is the implicit message that anyone who isn't a jerk is therefore a pansy and, thus, gay. Which is insulting to guys who *are* gay, and to kind, non-jerky guys who are straight. Then again, I shouldn't expect much coming from someone who falls madly in love with a new abusive jerk every few weeks... It's just frustrating.

Welcome to the wonderful world of not being a horny idiot. Funny thing is, guys who don't hit on women all the time get this kind of thing a lot. Welcome to the open-minded gender-neutral 21st century, where 'male' means horny jerk and 'gay' means considerate and kind. Eh, whatever. Maybe we should just start using Latin to confuse the stupid people... I'm willing to brush up.
