--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: i miss you.
tags: []

drupal_path: i-miss-you
drupal_nid: 857
created: 1011404040
---
Feel it closing in - feel it closing in 
A fear of whom I call - every time I call 
I feel it closing in - I feel it closing in 
Day in, day out -- 

so for some reason tonight, i've got this back and forth action going on. hot and cold, laughing and wincing and happy and hurting. lots of stress today from job related screwups and stuff, but it resolved itself ultimately and i managed to get through it without stressing too much or hurting anyone else when i was frustrated. three cheers for small victories.

went to the conference at willow with the rest of the group i hang out with, and it was good. after the speaker was finished we braved the arctic cold to Friday's and had steak/appetizers/chicken/veggies etc. We spent almost three hours just talking and getting to know each other. apparently the group of us is being poked and prodded to spin off and form our own small group in the south suburbs, since there's a high concentration of people down there. it could be interesting, and cool. kind of strange though, since I was just getting used to the idea of being a part of a group and *not* trying to run it, organize it, and drive it philosophically and emotionally. we all talked about that, and our lives, and our jobs (or the lack thereof. rachel is currently the ONLY person in our gang that's full-time employed. yay for dotcoms) and other stuff like that. lots of dissing, lots of laughing, and some deep stuff that happened in the times when nobody was expecting it.

i've spent a lot of my life holding people at a distance emotionally -- 'knowing them' and 'letting them know me' but never enough to really risk pain. i don't know if that makes any sense. pushing a year ago now, one of the only people i'd ever let get that close... we had a falling out. over a mutual friend and the twisted interconnected dynamics that always seem to result.

i'm really good at rambling.

but yeah. i never really talked about it at the time, but it hit me really, really hard. it was someone i'd grown up with, really -- one of those people i'd considered 'the one who understood me' for lack of a better term. the way the parting of ways occurred hurt a lot. and today they started a livejournal. i stumbled across it via six-degrees-of-separation effect, and blinked repeatedly. you get used to the rhythm of conversation with someone you know well. the ebb and flow of their thoughts and days and comments and smirks and laughs and the things they just 'get' without explaination.

you know what it's like to be known and understood. to know their history and have them know yours. and when something happens that cuts that off, you lose a little of yourself. you lose what they had of you, if that makes any sense.

i suppose it wasn't really all that sudden -- it was something that happened gradually and was only confirmed in the pinpoint event. it's that last bit that always stands out in memory, though.

so yeah, it all kind of came rushing back to me when i read eir words and blinked. i miss this person a lot. and i wish that it hadn't happened. and i don't know if it can come back, ever again. maybe it can. i just feel a pretty profound sense of sadness and loss as i read the mundane daily details of the life of someone i used to call my best friend.

so yeah.

if you're reading it, you know who you are.

i miss knowing you.

i'm glad you're doing okay.

drop me a line sometime.

or something like that.

<i>Feel it closing in - feel it closing in </i>
<i>A fear of whom I call - every time I call </i>
<i>I feel it closing in - I feel it closing in </i>
<i>Day in, day out -- </i>

--the verb
