--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: mofo.
tags: []

drupal_path: mofo
drupal_nid: 1053
created: 1038703980
---
<b>[fiction]</b>

<blockquote>In my line of work, style counts for damn near everything. Tangible, measurable results are easy to come by these days – any schmuck off the street can do the things we do faster and cheaper and more reliably. Give any middle manager a probability-weighted decision tree and enough statistical data, and he'll tell you how the job'll go a day before he makes the hire.

The real problem, though, is that <i>everyone</i> knows how the job'll go. The magical 'they' know what the names of Leo Dicaprio's next five movies will be before the screenwriter's finished the first draft. 'They' know that the short order cook in the diner down the street will burn the eggs tomorrow morning. 'They' know that their accountant will, with a 97.6% degree of probability, take his vacation in Cancun next year with the five grand he'll make finding tax shelters for the lottery cash 'they' know they'll win the in the lottery this September. These days, every<i>one</i> important knows every<i>thing</i> important before it even happens. Once those MIT guys let the cat out of the bag in '05 and told the world about stochastic probability trees, life got real strange real fast.

That's why I'm here in my third floor apartment, stuffing a duffel bag full of shredded newsprint and trying to decide whether I'll wear my suit or my jogging pants. I got the call for this job about two hours ago, short notice by twentieth century standards but eons by today's rabbit-on-crack-pace. Don't bother packing, the guy on the other end said, just pick up a ticket for flight 304, Chicago to London... He promised to wire me fifty grand by four o'clock, and the other half once the job was finished. I'm not used to that much information when I start a job, and it's got me a little off balance.

I crack open the bubble wrap on a new paper gun I just got from the 7-11 last week, and load it with six jelly rounds from my nightstand's drawer. It won’t stop much, but as far as any scanner’s concerned, it’s invisible. I toss it from palm to palm, testing the weight, and drop it into my pocket. It'll do.

I check my watch -- an hour to the airport, thirty minutes to check in... I'll just make it. I dig a fifty-peso coin out of my pocket and toss it, waiting ‘til it bounces off the shag carpet to look down. Heads -- looks like I'll wear the suit.</blockquote>
<b>[/fiction]</b>
