--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: /random
tags: []

drupal_path: random
drupal_nid: 1173
created: 1047259980
---
So the crew and I met up for food and a movie -- <a href="http://www.apple.com/trailers/miramax/the_quiet_american.html">The Quiet American</a>. It's easily the best film I've seen so far this year. One of the best I've seen in a couple years. It's that good. A subtle, uncomfortably morally complex film set in 1952 Vietnam, before the Americans were involved in any official capacity. Michael Caine plays a foreign correspondent for the London Times who's grown attached to his life in Saigon -- and his Vietnamese mistress. Brendan Fraser does an amazing job (considering his pretty corny list of credits) as an idealistic American aid worker who falls for the older man's lover. The looming romantic conflict between the men is mirrored in each man's struggle to resolve their own responsibilities with the brutality of Vietnam's political and social turmoil. On every level, the film offers the complexity of idealism, guilt and decency, pragmatism and love... The acting is subtle and warm, the soundtrack is excellent and the cinematography is beautiful. It never moralizes, and avoids easy resolutions. All positive qualities.

One scene, in which Caine's character describes the daily errands and rituals of his lover to a pining Brendan Fraser, jumped out. There was a casual air of friendly connection between the two, but an underlying brutality to the exchange. "See? I share a casual intimacy with her that you will never know. Her trip to the grocer, the magazines she flips through. Details that fade away in your idealized fantasies are mine to enjoy. I know her."  Perhaps I'm just reading into it... sometimes it seems as if the most painful realization in unrequited love is the understanding that you will never share those 'casually intimate' experiences with the object of your affection.

<!--break-->i could wound you
with my love for her
familiarity with her rituals
her habits
and her smiles
with my casual display
of knowledge you desire
we are different
you and i
your perfect dreams
will not touch my reality</lj-cut>
