--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: Hah!
tags: []

drupal_path: hah
drupal_nid: 1133
created: 1044310860
---
So that email that got my spider-sense tingling was subjected to further scrutiny. <lj-cut text="It was good, but not convincing enough.">
<blockquote><i>
0Hi there, how's it going? Well for starters I must confess that this is indeed  pretty awkward. I noticed your profile online and figured I'd drop ya a line....I bet that doesn't happen to you everyday! I never really even thought about it until someone saw mine and got in touch a little while back. ANYWAY! My name is Karan, I'm 23, and I'm a sale rep for a mid-sized pharmaceutical company. Goodness I can't get over how strange this is! I'm sure you're probably thinking the same thing! hehe. 
Oh well, I really don't want to go on too far. Especially since I'm not sure  whether or not you have any6 interest.  But if you would like to get to know more about me, please drop me a line. I'll be more than happy to include some  pics as well. 
Anything about you would be greatly appreciated as well :-) o  
Well I hope to hear from you soon! Take care. 

xoxo, 
Karan  ..........
 
P.S. Do you use any messenger services, maybe we can chat on there sometime? My email address is
Rosa_325_Lee@hotmail.com

Best regards, 
</i></blockquote>
</lj-cut>

The immediate tip-off was the combination of random personal details (23? Sales rep?) with the chatty, person style and the utter lack of personal detail about *me* in a message ostensibly prompted by my fascinating, enthralling "profile."

Lo and behold, a quick <a href="http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=navclient&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&q=%22I+must+confess+that+this+is+indeed+pretty+awkward%22" target="_blank">Googling</a> revealed that it's the first-sighting of a new spam wave. Replies to the email serve as confirmation that there is, in fact, a real live person on the other end of your email address. Spam starts flowing immediately.

Pff. Amateurs. True genius would be writing an Eliza-style chatbot that yammers at people via email for a while, before mentioning a really cool URL they should check out...

Hmm. Perhaps I should go tinker with that C# markov chainer...
