--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: Thoughts
tags: []

drupal_path: thoughts
drupal_nid: 1335
created: 1057772520
---
The day's discussions about "signals" and flirtation and misunderstandings have had me thinking about my views on the subject -- how I look at the entire thing. It's simultaneously amusing and frustrating that some of the friends who vigorously insist that flirtation doesn't mean anything are the same ones who have been most vocal in trying to convince me that various women <i>were</i> interested based on those fuzzy, indistinct signals.

People <i>do</i> use all sorts of cues to indicate romantic interest whether they realize it or not. Unfortunately, they often use the same cues to indicate lots of <i>other</i> things, too. Amusement or good humor or a desire for a good tip, for example. When it comes to actually <i>figuring something out</i> based on those signals, astrology is generally a more reliable indicator. That's not a bitter statement or a cynical statement -- it's just what I've observed. I'm not singling out women by <i>any means</i>. For as many times as I've thought a woman was interested because of her behavior towards me, someone <i>else</i> has thought I was interested in them romantically because I spent time with them, joked around with them, made eye contact, and smiled when they came into the room.

My point? I don't believe in signals.

I don't believe in some subtle, secret language of attraction.

If I'm interested in someone, it's up to me to talk to them, to get to know them, and to tell them honestly and openly that I'm interested in them as more than just a hang-out-after-work-buddy. It doesn't have to be some Epic Talk About Our Future, but there's a lot of middle ground between that and Flirting A Lot And Hoping They'll Notice. And that goes both ways, regardless of what people say about it being a Man's Job To Set The Pace. Being honest and up-front about my interests and desires isn't a <i>man</i> thing or a <i>woman</i> thing. It's a <i>healthy, mature person</i> thing.

What's the upshot? When someone is flirting with me, or somehow "giving off signals" that could be construed as romantic interest, I don't put any weight on it.  (Or, at the very least, I try not to.) I'm not pissed off that they're doing that -- heck, the banter, the back and forth rhythm of flirting wouldn't be popular if it wasn't so fun. But it doesn't <i>mean</i> anything. When we try to use it to communicate legitimate messages, we're really just <i>hoping</i>. Hoping the other person will read the secret encoded message and respond in kind. Hoping that they'll take it a step further -- like a game of chicken played with words and looks and teasing.

If I do that, I'm not taking responsibility for my own actions. I'm tossing out trial balloons and hoping someone else will do the really difficult part: admitting what they want.
