--- 
layout: post
title: "[comic_guy]Best. Christmas. Ever.[/comic_guy]"
tags: []

drupal_path: comic_guybest-christmas-ever-comic_guy
drupal_nid: 95
created: 1104185354
---
It'd be a gross understatement to say that this Christmas was deliriously spiffy. Admittedly, there've been stress-spikes and other yucky bits. Family stuff, financial crunches around the holidays, and the inopportune timing of delayed packages days before Christmas. But on the whole, things have come together very nicely. In particular, it's the first Christmas I've spent with Catherine; if the future's anything like this I'll be pleasantly bowled over.

I spent the days leading up to Christmas scrambling madly and prepping gifts, wrapping, etc. Christmas eve was spent picking up a few last minute bows and gifts, then migrating over to spend the evening with her family. Jon chipped away at Prince of Persia II while we hung out and caught up, then the eating of cheeses and soups and desserts and sparkling grape juice commenced. The Christmas story was read, carols were sung, gifts were exchanged, and incredulous silence mixed with guffaws when we all watched Jon's new copy of <em>Napoleon Dynamite.</em> It's the first Christmas celebration I've had with a family other than my own, and it took me a bit of time to get over the initial awkwardness. Would I be intruding? Was I a grudgingly accepted imposition? No. By the time things were underway we were laughing and enjoying each other and everything was good. Thankfully, my glamor shots of their cats were a big hit. Three cheers for photographic gifts!

Christmas day was with my parents -- I popped over early and we exchanged some gifts, the way we always have. Around noon I picked up Catherine and we migrated back for a nice Christmas meal, just the four of us. I think she was just as nervous as I was but by the end of the day it was all good. My mom, beside herself with maternal joy at the opportunity to embarrass me in from of my love, hauled out the Photo Albums Of Doom. *grin* Squealing and laughter ensued. Does anyone remembered the early 90's? How about the hair? I had a mullet, people. A big fluffy scary mullet that was, by any measure, <em>a terribly horribly had idea</em>. There was photographic evidence, and it was squealed at. The memory still haunts me. I stole a few of the better pics and will probably scan them in -- me as a toddler, surrounded by 70s-tastic fashion, childhood cowboy costumes, stuff like that. I suppose it's only fair, since I got to see Catherine's photo album, incriminating toddler content and all... Mwah hah!

Jon joined us afterward to see <em>House of Flying Daggers</em>, which was pretty and action-packed but ultimately fell short of <em>Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon's</em> high water mark. Despite what <em>Salon</em> says, it just doesn't have the emotional depth and the "love story" feels shallow compared to the other film's nuanced relationships. Catherine also noted that the terminally randy characters kept <em>kissing</em> each other -- a decidedly Western gesture out of place in the movie's temporal setting. Still fun, though, and worth a look as Ye Olde Classic Asian Period Action Flick.

Day after Christmas? Loungy loungy lounging. Catherine and I nibbled leftovers, at junk food, snuggled up and watched The Return of the King, and nabbed a small handful of on-sale Christmas ornaments at Target before the last of the shopping locusts got them. Caught <em>The Life Aquatic</em>, then curled up and talked about the future. It was good -- calm, filled with happy memory-making, and soaked with a sense of rightness. <em>The Life Aquatic</em> was about as solidly Wes Anderson as it gets, and it's obvious that he loves all of his characters very much. He's willing to take the chance of letting that love through on the screen, and as a result his films lack the cynical edge that most younger filmmakers leave on their work. It's refreshing and warm and sometimes painful -- when something happens to a character in his films, you don't just watch it, you feel it. Of course, there's also the ever present acoustic covers of David Bowie songs. Hearing an undersea researcher croon Space Oddity in another language? <em>Four thumbs up.</em>

But, yes. Christmas 2004... better than I ever would've expected. My family, hers. Catherine and I. A lot of connection, a lot of relaxing, and the warm knowledge that our future is <em>with each other.</em> Thanks, God.
