--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: Bwaha
tags: []

drupal_path: bwaha
drupal_nid: 812
created: 1002577620
---
So yeah, talk about a roller coaster day.

The short version: I came in to work and everything is broken. I spent the day bug fixing and fighting fires. Then got called into a meeting. Hah! Everyone in the company is getting a 20% pay cut, and there were other goodies as well. Friends are preparing resignation letters, devs with families are trying to figure out how they will make ends meet, and all kinds of stuff like that. There was a lot of talk about trust and pulling together as a team, but frankly, i've seen how the company has lied to people for months until the axe dropped...

things are pared to the bone already, and no one else can be cut without killing one of the projects that's already being worked on. that makes the 'you're still here, so you're an A-player!' rationale seem pretty sketchy.

And then, with everything blowing up and my salary 20% lower effective this afternoon, I was informed that I had to stay "as long as it takes" to get the current crop of defects fixed in the program.

Hah. Hahahahaha. Ahem.

Yeah.

but God has funny ways of working, you know? i happened to have my bible with me -- the little hardback one with the whisper thin onionskin pages. when lou and adam chipped off to play gran turismo 3 for an hour or so, i hung around and poked my way through the book of titus. Natalie logged on -- we'd been talking about reading through titus earlier, and she ended up going through it at the same time.

It was, simply put, a profoundly cool and encouraging experience. I've never actually read through Titus, now that I think about it. It's a skinny-little-white-guy of a book, next to the sumo wrestling Hebrews and Revelation type stuff. Just two pages. But man... there is such simple, profound, and punchy stuff in there.

Holy living. Good teaching. God's love. Calls for unity. It's simple, straightforward stuff but for some reason it really spoke to me tonight. Maybe it was refreshing to get out of the theological nitpicking of Calvinism/Arminianism discussions. Maybe it was the chance to talk to someone else at the same time, to toss ideas and thoughts and reactions back and forth as we were reading.

Either way, it was cool. We ended up talking about my take on the verse in Matthew where Jesus tells a couple people to cut off their hands if they cause them to sin. (I personally think Jesus was being sarcastic and pointing out the futility of dealing with issues of the heart as if they were physical maladies) and then prayed and she split.

It was just plain cool. Who would've thought? And now, Pat Boone's cover of Stairway To Heaven is playing. Sweet!

Well, I'm back to work insane hours for less pay on a doomed project. Hmmmm. ;-)
