--- 
layout: post
lj_post: TRUE
title: Mad World
tags: []

drupal_path: mad-world
drupal_nid: 1847
created: 1089108180
---
So, Monday evening I cruised into the city for <a href="http://joanofarrgh.livejournal.com">joanofarrgh</a><b>'s</b> Kirikou party. I missed the actual showing of Kirikou (and met <a href="http://edthechic.livejournal.com">edthechic</a> in person, as well as seeing <a href="http://rubypython.livejournal.com">rubypython</a> again. Whee!

After some hamming around and talking and joking and sharing of stories, we all watched <i>Donnie Darko.</i> I've seen the movie a couple of times and love it, disturbing though it may be. One thing that stands out is the <i>amazingly cool</i> 80's soundtrack. Tears for Fears, Joy Division, Echo and the Bunnymen... all very solid stuff that time warps me back about two decades and makes me grin bigly. The funny thing is, I didn't listen to <i>any</i> decent music around that time. Midwest Christian Boy that i was, all I had was Petra, Michael W. Smith, and Amy Grant cassette tapes until the 90's rolled around. I thought DC Talk was edgy.

Funny thing, though, I remember all those songs. Even though I wasn't listening to the music, it was the stuff that floated all around me in those formative gradeschool years. Kids playing their radios and office music and bits overheard at friends' houses... I think in that way, 80's music takes me back even more than stuff that I listened to first hand. Because for me, it was purely "soundtrack" -- the background music for a stage in my life that still had a lot of wonder and a lot of unknowns, worlds of possibility that start reducing to identifiable paths once you hit high school.

So, yeah. Good stuff, that soundtrack. It makes me smile.
